Update documentation (#30)
tidalmigrations/machine_stats: unix/README.md

# Machine Stats for Unix-like systems

> [![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/machine-stats)](https://pypi.org/project/machine-stats/)

Reviewer: I take it this readme on pypi gets updated via deploys from this repo right? https://pypi.org/project/machine-stats/

> [![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/machine-stats)](https://pypi.org/project/machine-stats/)

Author: Yes, you're right!

A simple and effective way to gather machine statistics (RAM, Storage, CPU)
from a server environment as a first layer of a [Tidal Migrations discovery
process](https://guides.tidalmg.com).

Machine Stats for Linux/Unix leverages [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) to
gather facts in a cross-platform way.

## Installation

Install locally in a Python 3 environment:

```

> pip install machine-stats

Author: Resolved in https://github.com/tidalmigrations/machine_stats/pull/30/commits/d6d6e435c54df2a546c105164e8228587f214837

```

> If you are using `pipx` you can install Machine Stats as the following:

Author: As of _why_ I don't have a clear answer myself. The main difference between `pip install` and `pipx install` is that `pipx install` installs packages in a virtual environment, so I ain't mix with system/user Python packages.

> If you are already have `pipx` installed and prefer to use that, you can install Machine Stats as the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you already have `pipx` installed and prefer to use that (`pipx` installs packages in a virtual environment, so it won't mix with your existing system/user Python packages), you can install Machine Stats as the following:
```

I see our previous thread vanished 😂 

but I think the context you provided there is valuable. For people who do want to use an existing VM and don't want to interfere with existing packages and python installations. Also I corrected a typo in the suggested text I wrote 🙈

```
pipx install machine-stats
```

> or even run Machine Stats directly with

Author: I'm against this change, I don't want to provide additional support for `pipx`.

`pip install` is the recommended installation process. If the user is familiar with `pipx`, I think she knows what to do!

> or even run Machine Stats directly with

Reviewer: Yea I agree, one recommended install approach is simpler. In the times I've worked with people using this, none are overly familiar with python or are python developers. With multiple methods here, it is confusing, even to me with some understanding of what the differences are, about what I _should_ do and why. Maybe it is best to then simply remove this entire example command from the Installation steps, to avoid confusion, as its not on the 'golden path'.

> or even run Machine Stats directly with

Author: Yes, agree! If it's possible to install with `pip install`, then it's possible to install/run with `pipx install`/`pipx run`.

```

## Data captured

For Linux/Unix based systems, by default, the following metrics are captured
from the resources and sent and stored in Tidal Migrations:

* Host Name
* FQDN
* IP Addresses
* RAM Allocated (GB)
* RAM Used (GB)
* Storage Allocated (GB)
* Storage Used (GB)
* CPU Count
* Operating System
* Operating System Version
* CPU name

## Minimal example

1. Create a `hosts` file in the current directory.
2. Add connection strings in the form of `ssh-user@ip-address` or
   `ssh-user@domain` to the `hosts` file one per line If the `ssh-user@` part
   is omitted, then the current user name is used.
3. If you need to use a custom SSH identity file for some particular host,
   provide it as the following:

   ```
   my-user@example.com ansible_ssh_private_key_file=path/to/key-file.pem
   ```
4. Make sure that Python 2.6+ is installed on the machines from `hosts` file.
5. If `python` executable was installed into non-default location (**not** in
   `/usr/bin/python`), add the `ansible_python_interpreter` parameter to the
   `hosts` file after the host IP/domain, for example:

   ```
   freebsd.example.com ansible_python_interpreter=/usr/local/bin/python
   ```

> 6. Execute `pipenv run stats` and pipe its output to Tidal Tools:

Author: Good catch, thanks!

# Machine Stats for Unix-like systems

[![PyPI](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/machine-stats)](https://pypi.org/project/machine-stats/)

A simple and effective way to gather machine statistics (RAM, Storage, CPU)
from a server environment as a first layer of a [Tidal Migrations discovery
process](https://guides.tidalmg.com).

Machine Stats for Linux/Unix leverages [Ansible](https://www.ansible.com/) to
gather facts in a cross-platform way.

## Installation

Install locally in a Python 3 environment:

```
python3 -m pip install machine-stats
```

### Offline installation

**NOTE:** Creating the packages archive for offline installation and the actual
offline installation process must be performed on machines with the same OS and

> Python versions.

Reviewer 2: 👍

1. On the machine with internet connection create the packages archive using
   the following commands:

   ```console
   $ python3 -m pip download -d machine-stats-offline machine-stats
   $ tar czf machine-stats-offline.tar.gz machine-stats-offline
   ```

> 2. Transfer the archive to machine where you need to perform the offline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Transfer the archive to the machine where you need to perform the offline
```

   installation (replace `<remote-host>` and ``<remote-dir> with the
   appropriate values):

   ```console
   $ scp machine-stats-offline.tar.gz <remote-host>:/<remote-dir>/
   ```

> 3. On the remote host, extracte the archive and awitch to extracted directory:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. On the remote host, extract the archive and switch to extracted directory:
```
